---
title: "Statistical analysis of the evolution of extreme claims for bodily risk cover."
collection: PhD
permalink: /publication/2022-07-01-phd
excerpt: 'The objective of this thesis is to show how the richness of the available data on insurance claims can be used to significantly improve the prediction of the final amount of a claim (or its outcome, when we are interested in the classification of a claim according to its level of severity). To process such a large volume of data - some of which are textual data, not very common in insurance - we use statistical learning techniques (in particular deep neural networks such as Convolutional Neural Networks or Long Short Term Memory networks) both as predictors and as information extractors. The study of bodily claims requires a specific treatment due to their characteristics and the extreme volatility of their cost. Extreme Value Theory tools allowed us to analyze the tail distribution of the claim's amount, but also to determine a severity threshold. Another specificity of our approach was to take into account the temporal flow of claims, which is particularly important when we are interested in a branch of insurance with a long development such as third party liability. During this thesis, we used several times IPCW (Inverse-Probability-of-Censoring Weighting) weights in order to deal with the phenomenon of censorship which makes the information available incomplete.'
date: 2022-07-01
venue: 'Sorbonne Université'
#paperurl: 'https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/LPSM/tel-03740735'
citation: 'Isaac Cohen Sabban. Analyse statistique de l'évolution des sinistres graves pour une garantie risque corporel. Mathématiques [math]. Sorbonne Université, 2022. Français.'
---
# Statistical analysis of the evolution of extreme claims for bodily risk cover*

The objective of this thesis is to show how the richness of the available data on insurance claims can be used to significantly improve the prediction of the final amount of a claim (or its outcome, when we are interested in the classification of a claim according to its level of severity). To process such a large volume of data - some of which are textual data, not very common in insurance - we use statistical learning techniques (in particular deep neural networks such as Convolutional Neural Networks or Long Short Term Memory networks) both as predictors and as information extractors. The study of bodily claims requires a specific treatment due to their characteristics and the extreme volatility of their cost. Extreme Value Theory tools allowed us to analyze the tail distribution of the claim's amount, but also to determine a severity threshold. Another specificity of our approach was to take into account the temporal flow of claims, which is particularly important when we are interested in a branch of insurance with a long development such as third party liability. During this thesis, we used several times IPCW (Inverse-Probability-of-Censoring Weighting) weights in order to deal with the phenomenon of censorship which makes the information available incomplete.

# Analyse statistique de l'évolution des sinistres graves pour une garantie risque corporel

L’objectif de cette thèse est de montrer comment la richesse des données disponibles sur des sinistres d’assurance peut être mise à profit pour améliorer significativement la prédiction du montant final d’un sinistre (ou son issue, lorsqu’on s’intéresse notamment à la classification d’un sinistre suivant son niveau de gravité). Pour traiter des données d’un tel volume - dont certaines sont des données textuelles, peu usuelles en assurance - nous utilisons des techniques d’apprentissage statistique (notamment réseaux de neurones profonds tels que les Convolutional Neural Networks ou des réseaux Long Short Term Memory) à la fois en tant que prédicteurs, mais aussi en tant qu’extracteurs d’information. L’étude des sinistres corporels nécessite un traitement spécifique du fait de leurs caractéristiques et de l’extrême volatilité de leur coût. L’utilisation d’outils issus de la Théorie des Valeurs Extrêmes nous a permis d’analyser la queue de distribution du montant des sinistres, mais aussi de déterminer un seuil de gravité. Une autre spécificité de notre approche a été de prendre en compte l’écoulement temporel des sinistres, particulièrement important lorsque l’on s’intéresse à une branche d’assurance à développement long comme la responsabilité civile. Au cours de cette thèse, nous avons été amenés à plusieurs reprises à utiliser les poids IPCW (Inverse-Probability-of-Censoring Weighting) afin de traiter le phénomène de censure qui rend l’information disponible incomplète.
